---
title: "Olpaka 0.5: The Scientist"
date: 2024-09-28 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [ releases ]
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/0.5_the_scientist_1.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/0.5_the_scientist_1.jpg
    title: "Connection settings"
---

> Nobody said it was easy\
> Oh, it's such a shame for us to part\
> Nobody said it was easy\
> No one ever said it would be so hard\
> I'm going back to the start

It's been a while since I've published something huh!?

Well, as per premise in previous blog posts, I've lost interest into this
project. So I've decided it was better to just leave it there for a while.

Up until a friend of mine told me that Kotlin Multiplatform + Compose work like
a charm. Something similar happened at work. I had to give it a try!

Since I cannot be bothered to clone twice the same project, I've spent the 
past month rewriting the whole project in Kotlin Multiplatform. So, some 
elements might look the same as before, others slightly different, new bugs 
might be there ... ENJOY!

## What's new

### Connection settings
Well, from a user experience, there should be pretty much nothing new.

What you'll find different is just a new section under the *Settings* tab
where you can connect to any ollama endpoint.

{% include gallery caption="New connection settings section" %}

For instance, I have an instance deployed on my Raspberry PI and that's where
I use it with some insignificant models such as 
[Qwen2.5:0.5b](https://ollama.com/library/qwen2.5). At the end of the day, I 
had to add at least one functionality to justify a new release. Right!?

### The discord server is now working!
Earlier I already had a Discord server link on the Readme.md file. However, I
didn't notice I've put an expiring link. That's why the server was so lonely!

If you want to join me, have a chat, report a bug, argue about why the sky is
blue, join the official [Olpaka Discord server](https://discord.gg/4exUDbu539)!

## How is Olpaka doing?
Well, it's definitely better that expected, considering there was a critical
bug that would prevent people with no models to download their first model!
In the past 3 months Olpaka has been used:

🌍 by **300** unique users from **57** different countries;\
💬 to send **100** messages - mainly using `llama3:latest`;\
⬇️ to download **30** models - mainly `llama3.1:8b`\

(**NOTE:** I've used emojis, so it looks more appealing to the audience: I'm 
finally doing some progress in self-marketing as well 🥳 ). 

Hopefully, with the new version things will be better.

## Nerd stuff - Flutter vs Kotlin Multiplatform

### Premise
I've been using Kotlin pretty much every single day for the past 8 years,
so it's obvious I'm more fluent with Kotlin therefore I'm biased.

### The technology
Flutter is way more mature than Kotlin Multiplatform. This is a fact: Flutter 
has now been around now for about 7 years, therefore it comes with tons of 
multiplatform libraries that just work out of the box, plenty of blog posts, 
StackOverflow questions and documentation.

Despite I don't really code with AI on a daily basis I've found ChatGPT really
struggling with Kotlin Multiplatform - especially WASM as it's an experimental
technology. 

So, all I've got was wrong answers, 2 pages of documentation from JetBrains 
and a Slack channel to ask obvious questions to which the answer was either 
`you can't do it` or `Yes, build it on your own`.

Olpaka is a very trivial piece of software as it's mostly:
- Render some UI;
- Render some Markdown;
- Dependency Injection - nice to have;
- Performing network calls;
- Storing few key/value pairs;
- Collecting some anonymous analytics;

So, let's make a little comparison

| **Feature**          | **Flutter**        | **Kotlin MP**          |
|----------------------|--------------------|------------------------|
| UI                   | Material           | Compose                |
| Markdown             | markdown_widget    | markdown-renderer      |
| Dependency Injection | get_it             | koin *                 |
| Network              | http, dio          | ktor                   |
| Preferences          | shared_preferences | multiplatform_settings |
| Analytics            | firebase           | firebase / custom **   |

\* Spent 6 hours fiddling with it as it prevented me to run it on WASM when the
app was not deployed on `localhost` 🥔

\** There's no such thing as Firebase Analytics multiplatform. So I had to 
import it on web, then create the bindings JS/Kotlin and provide an
implementation. For desktop I've just implemented the actual Google Analytics
reporting protocol. Both of those approaches are quite painful.

So, as you can see, Flutter already provides out-of-the box most of the tools
you might need to get started.

### Dart vs Kotlin
Here is where things become obvious. Let's just face it: if Kotlin is a 
sugar-coated version of Java, Dart is definitely the evil twin of Java.

#### Weak type system
The Dart's type system is very weak in general as I've encountered a huge
number of type casting nonsense - sorry: I can't remember exactly what was 
the scenario.

Compared to Kotlin, there are no `sealed class`es - yes I know you can 
download a library that mimics sealed classes, however, mimicking is not 
exactly the same as having the concept built into the compiler!

It wasn't as terrible as Python or Javascript, but for sure suboptimal.

#### Code generation
With kotlinx serialization you just need to annotate your data classes, and
you're pretty much good to go! With Dart, you'll need to fiddle so much that
I gave up and parsed the JSON manually. 

Maybe it's just me and my lack of patience here.

#### Resource usage and compile times
Well, when it comes to Kotlin compile times are on another level.

I've got a pretty decent Intel 8th gen computer with 32GB of RAM and SSD and
the kotlin compilation was painfully slow. A fresh web compilation takes around
5-8 minutes, a fresh desktop takes about 2-3 minutes.

Subsequent builds are way quicker, however, are not as instant as it happens
with Dart.

This is definitely a score from Dart.

#### UI Preview
When you are new to a UI Framework you might want to have a quick visual
preview of what you're building. Well, it might come to a surprise, but none
of the two technologies give you a decent live preview of what you're building!

That said, at list Dart has an "instant refresh" triggered when you press
CTRL + S, and it works on web, desktop and mobile. Kotlin multiplatform
provides such functionality only when the project is opened using the
[Intellij's Fleet IDE](https://www.jetbrains.com/fleet/). The only con of this
tool is that it's not just slow on its own, but it will also slow down or
freeze your entire OS.

#### Other perks
I've pretty much missed the concept of `data class`es, especially the `copy`
utility function. Again, I know that there are libraries to mimic this, but
it's like having a carbonara with bacon (guess where I'm from)!

`async/await` can be error-prone because I often forget to add the `await` 
keyword.

However, one thing that I really loved about Dart is the lack of an obvious
multithreading mechanism. If you want to achieve true multithreading, you'll
need to put some serious effort. This is definitely a PRO as most of the
developers do not think (know?) about concurrency when developing an app.