---
title: "Olpaka 0.4: Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger"
date: 2024-05-26 12:00:00 +0100
categories: [ releases ]
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_1.webp
    image_path: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_1.webp
    title: "New tab in the home screen"
  - url: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_2.webp
    image_path: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_2.webp
    title: "Dialog to input the model name"
  - url: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_3.webp
    image_path: /assets/images/0.4_harder_better_faster_stroger_3.webp
    title: "Downloading state for the model"
---
Over the past few weeks, my mind has been busy with various thoughts.
But one in particular has stood out...

> What codenames should I use for Olpaka releases!? :P

Since all the coolest projects have distinct names, and I want to
add something more personal to this project, moving forward, all Olpaka
releases will be named after iconic songs that have shaped the soundtrack of
my life.

And boy, have I got a name that fits like a glove the next release: "Harder,
Better, Faster, Stronger" from Daft Punk! It's like it was made for this release,
so let's get this party started!

## Harder
Diving into a new technology, language, or framework is always a challenge.
And when you're tackling them all at once? Well, let's just say it's not for
the faint of heart. But hey, I'm all about finding simple solutions that I
can wrap my head around.

I've definitely had to work **harder** than usual to master all of the
above.

## Better
Welcome to the *What's New* segment of this post! It's time to unveil some
exciting upgrades that have been in the works. Here's a rundown of all the
improvements:

- New **Settings** Tab: Now, users can personalize the app's look and feel by
  changing colors and theme modes!
- **Chat** enhancements:
  - From this release, every word generated by ollama is
    displayed in real-time, cutting down on tedious seconds of waiting;
  - Conversations will be kept when navigating away from the chat tab;
  - I've simplified the conversation bubbles to be more subtle and centered,
    ensuring better message readability;
  - Chats are now context-dependendent: follow-up message will be always
    based on chat history;
- **Model management** tweaks:
  - A progress bar tracks the progress of your models' download;
  - If you want to play with the app's theme while it's downloading a
    model, now there is a badge that helps you figure out whether your
    download is still ongoing or has completed!

With all these enhancements, I'm sure that your experience will be nothing
short of ... **better** than ever before!

## Faster
I've been on a mission to eliminate as much friction as possible. Say goodbye
to those pesky onboarding screens (I called it!): the app will guide you on
what needs fixing and how to fix it, right when you need it!

A "Getting Started" screen will be now shown only once. When the user
completes the flow, this will not be visible anymore. However, it can still
be accessible from the *Settings* tab.

With the same spirit I've refined the approach to error handling: instead of
bombarding the user with dialogs, the app is now showing non-blocking error
states.

These changes will supercharge the user's workflow, making everything run
smoother and definitely ... **faster**!

## Stronger
I've rewritten the app almost from scratch at least three times before finally
landing on something that feels just right.

Along the way, I've tackled countless challenges and bugs (and, let's be real,
probably introduced a few new ones in the process), endlessly redesigned
components until they fit my taste. I'm finally happy with the simple yet
effective structure I've landed on.

Well the above process was intrumental to forge a definitely... **stronger**
architecture.

{% include gallery caption="New features in Olpaka 0.4" %}

Ready to give it a spin? Check out the "Olpaka web app" link above! 😊